One protocol that you want to be especially careful with is ICMP v sex.
Remember an IP version for use OP to determine the MAC address of a neighbor.
OP is no longer used in IP version 6 neighbor Discovery Protocol or NDP is part of ICMP Version 6.
So if you have a blanket deny of IP version 6 inadvertently it could affect the communication of devices
in your IP version 6 network.
Icmp is also used for path into new discovery.
So don't just block ICMP Version 6.
Be careful blocking that protocol in IP version 4 in some cases you don't want to block ICMP but you
can be a little bit more blasé blocking ICMP in IP version 4 versus IP version 6.
Be careful again that some protocols required for neighbor discovery and basic IP version 6 functionality
require ICMP Version 6 IP version 6 access lists once again are very similar to IP version 4.
You need to be careful again with protocols that you use to an IP version 4 such as broadcasts and OP
IP version 6 doesn't use broadcasts it uses multi costs so to discover neighbors we use neighbor Discovery
Protocol and multicast rather than using ops and broadcasts IP version 6 also includes new fields such
as a float label and extension headers which are different to IP version for IP version 6 access lists
therefore allow you to match on traffic classes flow labels IP vs 6 and next head of field source and
destination 128 but IP vs 6 addresses upper layer headers Hialeah protocols such as TTP and UDP and
their relevant port numbers as well as flags such as an ACH.
We also have ICMP Version 6 types and codes that you could match on as well as IP version 6 ext Head
of Values and types.
So be careful there are differences between IP version 6 access lists and IP version 4 access lists.
There are also limitations with IP version 6 access lists IP version 6 tends to have more tunnels than
IP version for.
So as an example you may have IP version 6 packets transported over an IP version for network using
GRC tunnels.
So be careful if you're trying to block IP version 6 packets using an IP version 6 access list and that's
tunneled within a IP version forgery tunnel your access list won't work in IP version for access lists
wildcard masks don't have to be contiguous.
In other words it doesn't have to look like this.
You could match all odd IP addresses or even IP addresses by manipulating the inverse mask of an IP
version for access list.
However in IP version 6 you create IP version 6 access lists using a prefix length a number that indicates
the number of contiguous prefix Moscow bits.
That's very different to IP version for an IP version 6 access lists the prefix of Lent number represents
the number of contiguous bits that will be matched for that IP version 6 address prefix.
So we use a slash notation where the number after the slash indicates the number of bits of the prefix
length.
That means therefore that you can only match on an IP version 6 address prefix and can not use discontinuous
mosques with IP version 6 access lists.
In addition it's very common to have prefix lengths that are evenly divisible by 4.
So you'd use things such as Slash 48 slash 52 slash 56 slash 64 as an example.
And it's not a standard practice to have a prefix length that doesn't fall on a hex digit boundary that's
very different again to IP version for IP version 4 addresses you may have a slash 20 to slash 23 slash
24 but then a slash 25 or slash 26.
So unlike an IP version 4 where you don't just use slash 8 or slash 16 or slash 24 or slash 32.
That tends to be the practice in IP version 6.
So as an example you will match slash 64 you matching on a hex digit boundary remember hex digits are
for binary bits in length.
So we use slash 48 slash 52 slash 56 slash 60 slash 64 rather than something like Slash 62.
It's important to remember that excessive logging can negatively impact a rider performance.
The rider CPE use involved when a log entry is created.
Therefore be careful using the logging keyword just like with IP version for IP version 6 access list
don't deny packets originating from a router so an outbound access list on a raw interface will not
block rorted packets sent to by that Radha.